
Conceptual Questions 1


Q1. What is the difference between a List<int> and a List<dynamic> in Dart? Why is it usually better to use a typed list like List<int>?

List<int> stores only integers, while List<dynamic> can store values of any type such as integers, strings, or objects. Using List<int> is better because it provides type safety and prevents accidental insertion of incorrect data types.

Q2. In your findMax() function, why is it important to initialize your 'running maximum' variable to the first element of the list rather than to 0 or to a very small number? What could go wrong with the other approaches?

The running maximum must start with the first element because it is a real value from the list. If we started with 0 and all numbers were negative, the function would incorrectly return 0 even though it does not exist in the list.

Q3. Your calculateAverage() function calls calculateSum() internally. What software design principle does this demonstrate, and why is reusing existing functions preferable to duplicating code?

This demonstrates the principle of code reuse and modular programming. By calling calculateSum(), we avoid duplicating logic and make the program easier to maintain and debug.

Q4. Describe in plain English what the for-in loop syntax does in Dart. How is it different from a traditional for loop with an index? When would you prefer one over the other?

A for-in loop iterates directly over elements of a collection. It retrieves each element one by one without using an index. A traditional for loop uses an index variable to access elements. The for-in loop is simpler when you only need values, while the traditional loop is better when you need the index position.

Q5. If someone calls your findMax() function with an empty list, what happens? How could you modify the function to handle that case safely?

If the list is empty, accessing numbers[0] causes a runtime error. To handle this safely, we could check:

if(numbers.isEmpty){
  throw ArgumentError("List cannot be empty");
}


